Removed "no support" language from supported input type (#27637)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/input/datetime-local/index.md

The control's UI varies in general from browser to browser. In browsers with no support, these degrade gracefully to simple [`<input type="text">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/text) controls.

The control is intended to represent _a local date and time_, not necessarily _the user's local date and time_. In other words, an implementation should allow any valid combination of year, month, day, hour, and minute—even if such a combination is invalid in the user's local time zone (such as times within a daylight saving time spring-forward transition gap). Some mobile browsers (particularly on iOS) do not currently implement this correctly.

Because of the limited browser support for `datetime-local`, and the variations in how the inputs work, it may currently still be best to use a framework or library to present these, or to use a custom input of your own. Another option is to use separate `date` and `time` inputs, each of which is more widely supported than `datetime-local`.

> Some browsers may resort to a text-only input element that validates that the results are legitimate date/time values before letting them be delivered to the server, as well, but you shouldn't rely on this behavior since you can't easily predict it.

Reviewer: I don't think this is related to compatibility

> The control is intended to represent _a local date and time_, not necessarily _the user's local date and time_. In other words, an implementation should allow any valid combination of year, month, day, hour, and minute—even if such a combination is invalid in the user's local time zone (such as times within a daylight saving time spring-forward transition gap).

Author: ```suggestion
The control is intended to represent _a local date and time_, not necessarily _the user's local date and time_. In other words, the input allows any valid combination of year, month, day, hour, and minute—even if such a combination is invalid in the user's local time zone (such as the one hour within a daylight saving time spring-forward transition gap).
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Value', 600, 60) }}

> One thing to note is that the displayed date and time formats differ from the actual `value`; the displayed date and time are formatted according to the user's locale as reported by their operating system, whereas the date/time `value` is always formatted `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm`. When the above value is submitted to the server, for example, it will look like `partydate=2017-06-01T08:30`.

Author: ```suggestion
One thing to note is that the displayed date and time formats differ from the actual `value`; the displayed date and time are formatted according to the user's locale as reported by their operating system, whereas the date/time `value` is always formatted `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm`. When the above value is submitted to the server, for example, it will look like `partydate=2024-06-01T08:30`.
```

> > **Note:** Also bear in mind that if such data is submitted via HTTP [`GET`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET), the colon character will need to be escaped for inclusion in the URL parameters, e.g. `partydate=2017-06-01T08%3A30`. See {{jsxref("Global_Objects/encodeURI", "encodeURI()")}} for one way to do this.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Also bear in mind that if such data is submitted via HTTP [`GET`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET), the colon character will need to be escaped for inclusion in the URL parameters, e.g. `partydate=2024-06-01T08%3A30`. See {{jsxref("Global_Objects/encodeURI", "encodeURI()")}} for one way to do this.
```

### Setting maximum and minimum dates and times

> You can use the [`min`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#min) and [`max`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#max) attributes to restrict the dates/times that can be chosen by the user. In the following example, we are setting a minimum datetime of `2024-06-01T08:30` and a maximum datetime of `2024-06-30T16:30`:

Reviewer: This is going to become "outdated" anyway; I personally don't see a problem with `2017`.

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Validation', 600, 120) }}

> Here's the CSS used in the above example. Here we make use of the {{cssxref(":valid")}} and {{cssxref(":invalid")}} CSS properties to style the input based on whether the current value is valid. We put the icons on a {{htmlelement("span")}} next to the input, not on the input itself.

Reviewer: I think the reason is quite valuable to have, unless it's outdated?

Author: it's bad practice to put generated content in replaced elements, and this page is not the right format for explaining it. Also, there is no room in this particular element to add generated content; so even if it weren't an anti-pattern, it's not relevant to this particular form control.

Reviewer: Okay, but without a motivation it looks weird because it seems quite apparent, and I probably wouldn't have done it otherwise. Maybe we can delete the entire "We put the icons on a {{htmlelement("span")}} next to the input, not on the input itself" sentence? This is just me speaking as a reader, though.

> Here's the CSS used in the above example. Here we make use of the {{cssxref(":valid")}} and {{cssxref(":invalid")}} CSS properties to style the input based on whether the current value is valid. We put the icons on a {{htmlelement("span")}} next to the input, not on the input itself.

Author: ```suggestion
Here's the CSS used in the above example. Here we make use of the {{cssxref(":valid")}} and {{cssxref(":invalid")}} CSS properties to style the input based on whether the current value is valid. We put the icons on a {{htmlelement("span")}} next to the input.
```

If you try submitting it, you'll see that the browser now displays an error message (and highlights the input as invalid) if your entry doesn't match the pattern `nnnn-nn-nnTnn:nn`, where `n` is a number from 0 to 9. Of course, this doesn't stop people from entering invalid dates, or incorrectly formatted dates and times.

And what user is going to understand the pattern they need to enter the time and date in?

We still have a problem.

```css hidden
div {
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

input:invalid + span {
  position: relative;
}

input:invalid + span::after {
  content: "✖";
  position: absolute;
  right: -18px;
}

input:valid + span {
  position: relative;
}

input:valid + span::after {
  content: "✓";
  position: absolute;
  right: -18px;
}
```

The best way to deal with dates in forms in a cross-browser way at the moment is to get the user to enter the day, month, year, and time in separate controls ({{htmlelement("select")}} elements being popular — see below for an implementation), or use JavaScript libraries such as [jQuery date picker](https://jqueryui.com/datepicker/), and the [jQuery timepicker plugin](https://timepicker.co/).

> ## The Y2K38 Problem (often server-side)

Reviewer: These are not strictly speaking outdated, and they seem quite interesting.

Author: true, but this is not the right page for it.

Reviewer: Could you find somewhere to put them? Other than here there's no other mention.

Reviewer: Would https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Date_and_time_formats or https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/HTML5_input_types be a better fit for you? Otherwise a glossary for Y2K38 is good enough and we can kiss Y10K goodbye—I sincerely hope no one worries about it.

Author: moved to date time formats

## The Y10k Problem (often client-side)

In many servers, dates are stored as numbers instead of as strings--numbers of a fixed size and agnostic of format (aside from endianness). After the year 10,000, those numbers will just be a bit bigger than before, so many servers will not see issues with forms submitted after the year 10,000.

The problem is with the client side of things: parsing of dates with more than 4 digits in the year.

```html
<!--midnight of January 1st, 10000: the exact time of Y10K-->
<input type="datetime-local" value="+010000-01-01T05:00" />
```

It's that simple. Just prepare your code for any number of digits. Do not only prepare for 5 digits. Here is JavaScript code for programmatically setting the value:

```js
function setValue(element, date) {
  const isoString = date.toISOString();
  element.value = isoString.substring(0, isoString.indexOf("T") + 6);
}
```

Why worry about the Y10K problem if it is going to happen many centuries after your death? Exactly because you will already be dead, so the companies using your software will be stuck using your software without any other coder who knows the system well enough to come in and fix it.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: We need at least one example, I think

Author: I rearranged the examples and put the header back in
